# Server-Side Rendering with ASP.NET MVC  

In this book you will get an introduction to server-side rendered web applications. So far in the course, the HTML that appears in your browser is mostly (aside from the HTML in index.html) dynamically generated by Javascript _in your browser_. This HTML is _rendered_ (generated from the JSX and data in your React applications) as part of the Javascript that makes up your client application. 

Server-side rendering takes a different approach. Instead of building the HTML with Javascript on the front-end, the server generates most or all of that HTML before sending a response to the browser. In this architecture, the server is responsible both for data management and for the creation of the UI. What it returns to the client, instead of just an empty `index.html` page with `script` tags to the JS files to run your app, will instead be a fully-formed web page ready to be painted in the browser window.

MVC stands for Model, View, Controller. Model and Controller mostly do the same things that they did when you were using .NET to build Web APIs. Models are C# representations of your database entities. Controller methods are still handlers for HTTP requests. The difference is that instead of sending JSON responses to the client, the handlers will return HTML responses that are built with _Views_. 

## What's a View?
Views are html templates that allow you to use code to change the final output html with data. You are familiar with one templating syntax already - JSX! JSX allows you to fill HTML templates with dynamically generated elements and data that _looks_ a lot like HTML. 

MVC has its own syntax to do this with C# - it's called Razor syntax.

## Table of Contents
|#|:dog:<br>DogGo<br> <sub>(guided tour)</sub> |
|:-:|:-:|
|1|[Project Setup](./chapters/project-setup.md)|
|2|[Initial Migration](./chapters/initial-migration.md)|
|3|[Controllers](./chapters/Controllers.md)|
|4|[Get All Walkers/Single Walker](./chapters/get-all-walkers.md) <br><sub style="font-size: 0.85rem;"></sub>|
|5|[Get All Owners/Single Owner](./chapters/get-all-owners.md)|
|6|[Adding and Updating Data with MVC](./chapters/adding-and-updating-data.md)
|7|[Implementing CRUD for the Dog Entity](./chapters/dog-crud.md)|
|8|[ViewModels](./chapters/view-models.md)|
|9|[Routing & Http Requests](https://github.com/nashville-software-school/bangazon-inc/blob/server-side-curriculum/book-2-mvc/chapters/ROUTING.md)|
|10|[Validation & Customize with Attributes](https://github.com/nashville-software-school/bangazon-inc/blob/server-side-curriculum/book-2-mvc/chapters/MODEL_ATTRIBUTES.md)|



|Optional Project|
|-|
|[Refining DogGo](https://github.com/nashville-software-school/bangazon-inc/blob/server-side-curriculum/book-2-mvc/chapters/HOLIDAY_MVC_PROJECT.md)|
